PS-1179 Web Endpoint example (#3)
Macrix/procontel.sdk: samples/WebEndpoints/README.md

---
Title: "ProconTEL WEB Endpoint Examples"
github_url: "https://github.com/Macrix/procontel.sdk/Samples/WebEndpoint/edit/main/README.md"
Weight: 8
Description: >
  Use the ProconTEL endpoint to host and manage your WEB application
---

## Table of Contents

1. [Quick introduction](#quick-introduction)
2. [Web endpoint settings](#endpoint-settings)
3. [MVC Controller & dependency injection](#mvc-controller-dependency-injection)
4. [Hosting static files](#hosting-static-files)
5. [Broadcasting messages using http request](#broadcasting-messages)
 
 <div id='quick-introduction'/>

> ## 1. Quick introduction

Reviewer: I think you need to add an empty line between `div` and chapter, so it can be properly rendered. This applies to all chapters.

Author: Fixed

> Using ProconTEL, you can create an application that will provide communication between endpoints using HTTP request (Rest API). You can also use ProconTEL endpoint to host static files. The instruction describes how to solve the main issues with setup and hosting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using ProconTEL it is possible to create an application that will expose REST API using HTTP/HTTPS protocol and additionally host static web application (like _Angular_ or _React_ single page application). This instruction describes example based on _Microsoft ASP.NET_ for setting REST API and simple static content files serving as web application.

Due to ProconTEL version currently based on _.NET Framework 4.7.2_, thid example is based on _Microsoft ASP.NET Core_ version **2.2**. This is currently the highest supported version.
```

Author: Applied

The presented code snippets are from an example that can be downloaded from the location: 

> [`sample\WebEndpoints`](https://github.com/Macrix/procontel.sdk/samples/WebEndpoints)

Reviewer: This link points to the same location where this page is defined. Why would I need it? Besides it doesn't work.
Apart from mentioned, you should use relative path. Markdown can find out the correct absolute path. So link should be something like `[sample\WebEndpoints](WebEndpoint/)`

Author: Fixed

<div id='endpoint-settings'/>
## 2. Web endpoint settings

> The `WebEndpoint` is responsible for configuring and starting the WEB service. For this purpose, endpoint inherits from the `IEndpointLifeTimeCycle` interface which implements the `InitializeAsync` method. The `InitializeAsync` method is executing while the endpoint is activated. The consequently method will configure and lunch the WEB service. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `WebEndpoint` is responsible for configuring and starting the web service. For this purpose, endpoint implements `IEndpointLifeTimeCycle` interface which defines the `InitializeAsync` method. The `InitializeAsync` method is executing while the endpoint is activated. The consequently method will configure and lunch the web service. 
```

Author: Applied

> The endpoint implementation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The endpoint declaration:
```

Author: Applied

```csharp
    public class WebHostEndpoint : IEndpointLifeTimeCycle
```

> The WEB service configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The web service configuration:
```

Author: Applied

```csharp
    public Task InitializeAsync(IMiddlewareBuilder builder)
    {
      var urls = Urls ?? _defaultUrls;
      _logger.Information($"Start initialize web host, urls = { string.Join(", ", urls.ToArray()) } ");
      Host = Microsoft.AspNetCore.WebHost
        .CreateDefaultBuilder()
        .UseContentRoot(Path.GetDirectoryName(typeof(WebEndpoint).Assembly.Location))
        .ConfigureServices(ConfigureServices)
        .UseStartup<Startup>()
        .UseUrls(urls)
        .Build();
      
      return Host.StartAsync();
    }

    protected virtual void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection ioc)
    {
      ioc.AddTransient(ctx => _logger);
      ioc.AddTransient(ctx => _runtimeContext);
      ioc.AddTransient(ctx => _messageBus);
    }
```

<div id='mvc-controller-dependency-injection'/>
## 3. MVC Controller & dependency injection

> It is possible to pass references to the controller using dependency injection. However, the dependency will not be resolved automatically. For this purpose, it is necessary to indicate in the configuration which dependencies can be injected into the controller. The example below shows how to inject a reference into the MessageBus service to broadcast messages in channel. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 3. Dependency injection

_Microsoft ASP.NET_ is using it's own dependency injection container, which can be easily extended with basic ProconTEL services. Later those services can be injected into controllers.

Below example shows how to register ProconTEL `IMessageBus` and `ILogger` into _ASP.NET_ DI container.
```

Author: Applied

Configuration of dependency injection
```csharp
    protected virtual void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection ioc)
    {
      ioc.AddTransient(ctx => _logger);
      ioc.AddTransient(ctx => _runtimeContext);
      ioc.AddTransient(ctx => _messageBus);
    }
```
Configuration of MVC controller
```csharp
  [ApiController]
  [Route("api/[controller]")]
  public class ChannelController : ControllerBase
  {
    private IMessageBus MessageBus { get; }

    public ChannelController(IMessageBus messageBus)
    {
      MessageBus = messageBus;
    }
    ...
  }
```

<div id='hosting-static-files'/>
## 4. Hosting static files

> It is possible to use the ProconTEL plugin to host static websites. For this purpose, the service `AddSpaStaticFiles` has been defined in the `Startup` class. Be able to display the page while installing the plugin, configure the path that contains the files. To publish your static files, follow the steps below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is possible to use the ProconTEL plugin to host static websites. For this purpose, the service `AddSpaStaticFiles` has been defined in the `Startup` class. Static files of web application need to be added with ProconTEL plugin installation step. Example below shows how to configure ProconTEL endpoint to server static files.
```

Author: Applied

- In the `Startup` class, set the name of the folder where the files will be located. In the example below, this is a folder named `WebApp`. 
```csharp
services.AddSpaStaticFiles(options => { options.RootPath = "WebApp"; });
```

- Install the plugin containing WEB endpoint.
- During plugin installation, select the folder with static files.

![Plugin Manager](./assets/PluginManager.png)

![Additional Directory](./assets/AdditionalDirectoryDefinition.png)

- Then add an endpoint to the channel or pool and run it. 

<div id='broadcasting-messages'/>
## 5. Broadcasting messages using http request

> The web endpoint may allow you to communicate with other endpoints in the channel. An example of communication with other endpoints in the channel is presented below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 5. Accessing ProconTEL communication from ASP.NET Core Controller

The web endpoint may allow you to communicate with other ProconTEL endpoints. An example of communication with other ProconTEL endpoints is presented below:
```

Author: Applied

---
Title: "ProconTEL WEB Endpoint Examples"
github_url: "https://github.com/Macrix/procontel.sdk/Samples/WebEndpoint/edit/main/README.md"
Weight: 8
Description: >
  Use the ProconTEL endpoint to host and manage your WEB application
---

## Table of Contents

1. [Quick introduction](#quick-introduction)
2. [Web endpoint settings](#endpoint-settings)
3. [Dependency injection](#dependency-injection)
4. [Hosting static files](#hosting-static-files)
5. [Accessing ProconTEL communication from ASP.NET Core Controller](#broadcasting-messages)
 
 <div id='quick-introduction'/>

## 1. Quick introduction

Using ProconTEL it is possible to create an application that will expose REST API using HTTP/HTTPS protocol and additionally host static web application (like _Angular_ or _React_ single page application). This instruction describes example based on _Microsoft ASP.NET_ for setting REST API and simple static content files serving as web application.

Due to ProconTEL version currently based on _.NET Framework 4.7.2_, thid example is based on _Microsoft ASP.NET Core_ version **2.2**. This is currently the highest supported version.

> [sample\WebEndpoint](WebEndpoint/)

Reviewer: ???

Author: removed
